The big question now is,
can we write a program that finds the shortest path from starts to goal.
To do so, let's give the grid cell names.
We have six columns named from zero to five and five rows from zero to four,
and the basic idea I'll pursue is,
that I keep a list of nodes that I wish to investigate further or as we call,
it an search, expand.
Let's call this list open.
So beginning, we have only one state on this list.
It's (0,0), my initial state.
Just to make sure I never pick this state again,
I don't want any cycles in my path.
Let me just check mark,
the state with a little red check.
I now can test whether this state is my final goal state. Obviously, it's not.
I'm not done with planning yet.
So what I do next, I expand the state.
So take it off my open list
and look at all the successors of which there are two over here,
(1,0) and (0,1), those two are now expanded.
So I'll check them. One last thing,
I maintain for each of these states in the open list,
how many expansions it took to get there.
So this was zero over here.
It's one for these two states, in red.
That's called my g value.
When I'm done with planning,
this will be the length of the optimal paths.
Let's now go further and expand one of the two.
We always expand the one with the smallest g value but these are equivalent.
They both have a g value of one,
so it doesn't make a difference.
So let me expand the first one.
It's this one over here.
This one has three neighbors,
(0,0), (1,1), and (2,0).
But because (0,0) is already closed with the check mark,
we don't consider it anymore,
which gives me, (2,0) and (1,1),
both now with a g value of two and we check those over here.
I now pick the node on the open list with
the smallest g value which happens to be this one over here. There's really no choice.
It's the node over here and this has two neighbors,
(0,0) and (1,1), but both already checked.
So therefore, there's no expansion that takes place.
I only expand if I find an unchecked node.
So the new open list are these two nodes over here and our recurse.
What's going to happen is, my nodes will expand gradually into
the free space until I eventually hit the goal node and without proof,
the g value of when I hit the goal node,
will be exactly the number of steps it takes to go from the start state to the goal node.
The secret here for that to be the case lies in the fact
they'll always expand the node with the smallest g value,
but we won't worry about this.
What I want you to do is, to implement a piece of code that implements what I just did.